in Australia there's a species of spider
that has taken web construction a stage
further still it bills not just in two
dimensions but three it regularly takes
up residence in people's backyards and
on their verandas this one under this
plant holder it's notorious and very
venomous read-back and what's brought it
here is the extraordinary way in which
it uses silk the female usually builds
at night and constructs this very
elaborate web it's not just wide it's
deep to make it she needs two flat
surfaces one beneath the other and
that's what she's found underneath the
plant holder first she drops down
pulling a thread behind her she sticks
the end to the veranda floors then she
goes back up again trailing a second
line which she sticks to the first so
strengthening it then she pulls the line
tight that is a crucial element in the
construction
down she goes again
by the time she is finished she will
have fixed several dozen of these sticky
taut vertical lines an ant is
approaching in the distance an orb web
would never catch one of these
it's a scout leading an exploring party
searching beneath the plant holder
it's almost bound to blunder into one of
the Redbacks lines it struggles and so
seals its fate
and its followers go the same way
the threads carry the vibrations back to
the red back waiting above she has no
need to hurry her meals are suspended in
midair Escape is impossible
she hauls them up in her own good time
the red back strap is certainly
economical with silk but one North
American spider hunts with just a single
filament this may look like a bird
dropping but that's just a disguise to
fool anything that might want to eat it
in fact it's a spider and one with an
even more extraordinary hunting
technique it's a bolas spider throughout
today she remains motionless but when
evening comes she prepares the action
she abandons her disguise and starts to
move slowly she makes her way down to
the underside of the leaf
there she hangs from a horizontal thread
next she starts to spin a single strong
line pulling it out of her spinneret
with her back legs and at the end there
is a sticky globule this is her ballast
it's all she needs she climbs back up to
her leaf and takes up a position on the
horizontal thread with her weighted
filament dangling from one of her front
legs
a moth she whirls her bill ass but
misses but she has ways of enticing them
off back she can produce a pheromone a
chemical perfume that the moth finds
irresistible
what is more she can change it to suit
the particular species of moth that
happens to be around the mouth comes
back this time she's got it
now she starts to wrap it
but she's not finished yet
different months and a different
pheromone
you